.TH "		\fBmetis_daemon\fP 	" "1" 
.SH "NAME" 
\fBmetis_daemon\fP 	 \(em Metis is the CCNx 1.0 forwarder, which runs on each end system and as a software forwarder 
on intermediate systems. 
 
.SH "SYNOPSIS" 
.PP 
\fBmetis_daemon\fR [\fB\-\-port\fP \fIport\fR]  [\fB\-\-daemon\fP]  [\fB\-\-capacity\fP \fIcontentStoreSize\fR]  [\fB\-\-log\fP \fIfacility=level\fR \&...]  [\fB\-\-log-file\fP \fIlogfile\fR]  [\fB\-\-config\fP \fIconfigfile\fR]  
.SH "DESCRIPTION" 
.PP 
\fBmetis_daemon\fR is the CCNx 1.0 forwarder, which runs on each end system and as a software forwarder 
on intermediate systems.  metis_daemon is the program to launch Metis, either as a console program 
or a background daemon (detatched from console).  Once running, use the program \fBmetis_control\fR to 
configure Metis. 
 
.PP 
Metis is structured as a set of Listeners, each of which handles a specific method of listening for packets. 
For example, a TCP listener will accept connections on a specific TCP port on a specific local IP address. 
An Ethernet listener will accept frames of a specific EtherType on a specific Interface.   
 
.PP 
When Metis accepts a connection, it will create a Connection entry in the ConnectionTable to represent that peer. 
For Ethernet, a Connection is the tuple {dmac, smac, ethertype}.  For TCP and UDP, it is the tuple {source IP, source port, 
destination IP, destination port}.  The connid (connection ID) becomes the reverse route index in the Pending Interest Table. 
 
.SH "OPTIONS" 
.IP "\-\-config \fIconfigfile\fR" 10 
Reads configuration parameters from 
\fIconfigfile\fR. 
The  
\fI\-\-port\fR option has no effect in this mode 
and Metis will not listen to any ports.  This means that  
\fBmetis_control\fR will not be able to connect to Metis to configure it 
further unless one includes at least a listener for TCP localhost or a unix domain socket. 
 
.IP "\-\-capacity \fIcontentStoreSize\fR" 10 
Sets the capacity of the Content Store to  
\fIcontentStoreSize\fR content objects. 
Metis uses a least-recently-used eviction policy.  A size of 0 will disable the 
Content Store. 
 
.IP "" 10 
The Content Store sits on the fast path of the forwarder, so there is a cost 
associated with adding and removing items to the Content Store tables. 
 
.IP "\-\-daemon" 10 
Runs Metis in daemon mode, detaching from the console.  It must 
be run with the \fI\-\-log-file\fR option. 
 
.IP "\-\-log \fIfacility\fR=\fIlevel\fR" 10 
Sets the log level of the given  
\fIfacility\fR 			to the given 
\fIlevel\fR. 
The \fI\-\-log\fR option may be repeated 
several times setting the log level of different facilities.  If the same 
facility is listed twice, only the last occurance takes effect. 
The default log level is Error for all facilities. 
 
.IP "" 10 
Facilities: 
.RS 
.IP "   \(bu" 6 
all: All facilities. 
 
.IP "   \(bu" 6 
config: Configuration activies. 
 
.IP "   \(bu" 6 
core: Core forwarder, such as startup and shutdown. 
 
.IP "   \(bu" 6 
io: Listeners, connections, and all I/O related activities. 
 
.IP "   \(bu" 6 
message: CCNx messages, such as parsing. 
 
.IP "   \(bu" 6 
processor: Forwarding processor, such as CS, FIB, and PIT activities. 
 
.RE 
 
.IP "" 10 
The log levels are: debug, info, notice, warning, error, critical, alert, off. 
 
.IP "\-\-log-file \fIlogfile\fR" 10 
Specifies the 
\fIlogfile\fR 			to write all log messages.  This parameter is required with  
\fI\-\-daemon\fR mode. 
 
.IP "\-\-port \fIport\fR" 10 
The UDP and TCP port to listen on.  If no  
\fIconfigfile\fR             is specified, Metis will listen on this port on all interfaces 
including localhost. 
 
.IP "" 10 
If this parameter is not given, Metis uses the default port 9695. 
 
.SH "USAGE" 
.PP 
\fBmetis_daemon\fR \-\-config metis.cfg \-\-log all=info \-\-log config=debug \-\-log-file metis.log 
 
.SH "SEE ALSO" 
.PP 
See \fBmetis_control\fP\fB(1)\fP for a 
description of how to configure \fBmetis_daemon\fR. 
 
.PP 
For a list of all configuration lines that may be used with 
\fBmetis_control\fR and by \fI\-\-config\fR configuration file, 
see \fBmetis.cfg\fP\fB(5)\fP. 
 
.SH "CAVEATS" 
.IP "   \(bu" 6 
A given interface may only have one Ethernet listener on one EtherType.	 
 
.IP "   \(bu" 6 
If there are multiple longest matching prefix entries that match an Interest, it will be 
forwarded to all those routes (i.e. multicast). 
 
.IP "   \(bu" 6 
Ethernet fragmentation will only use the interface MTU and there is not MTU discovery.  If Metis is 
used in a bridged environment, this may lead to errors if the MTU changes on different segments, such 
as a 10G link at 9000 bytes and a 100 Mbps link at 1500 bytes. 
 
.SH "BUGS" 
.IP "   \(bu" 6 
Adding the same listener twice will cause Metis to crash. 
 
.IP "   \(bu" 6 
Errors in the configuration file may cause Metis to crash. 
 
.IP "   \(bu" 6 
The command 'list connections' will display all connections as TCP encapsulation. 
 
.SH "AUTHOR" 
.PP 
Marc Mosko Palo Alto Research Center  	 
.\" created by instant / docbook-to-man, Tue 26 May 2015, 01:54 
