.TH "		\fBmetis.cfg\fP 	" "5" 
.SH "NAME" 
\fBmetis.cfg\fP 	 \(em \fBmetis.cfg\fP is an example of a configuation file usable with 
\fBmetis_daemon\fP\fB(1)\fP, 
though there is nothing special about the actual filename.  Each line of the configuration file is also usable with  
\fBmetis_control\fP\fB(1)\fP.  This 
document specifies all available command lines used to configure and query Metis. 
 
All commands have a 'help', so typing 'help command' will display on-line help.  
 
In a configuration file, lines beginning with '#' are comments. 
 
.SH "ADD COMMANDS" 
.IP "add connection ether \fIsymbolic\fR \fIdmac\fR \fIinterface\fR" 10 
Adds an Ethernet connection on \fIinterface\fR  to the given destination MAC address. 
The \fIsymbolic\fR name is a symbolic name for the connection, which may be used in 
later commands, such as \fBadd route\fR. 
There must be an Ethernet Listener on the specified interface (see \fBadd listener\fR), and the connection  
will use the same EtherType as the Listener. The \fIdmac\fR destination MAC address 
is in hexidecimal with optional "\-" or ":" separators. 
 
.IP "" 10 
A connection is a target for a later route assignment or for use as an ingress identifier in the PIT.  When using a broadcast 
or group address for a connection, an Interest routed over that connection will be broadcast.  Many receivers may respond. 
When Metis receives a broadcast Interest it uses the unicast source MAC for the reverse route \-\- it will automatically create 
a new connection for the source node and put that in the PIT entry, so a Content Object answering the broadcast Interest will 
only be unicast to the previous hop. 
 
.IP "" 10 
add connection ether conn7 e8-06-88-cd-28-de em3 
 
.IP "" 10 
add connection ether bcast0 FFFFFFFFFFFF eth0 
 
.IP "add connection (tcp|udp) \fIsymbolic\fR \fIremote_ip\fR \fIremote_port\fR \fIlocal_ip\fR \fIlocal_port\fR" 10 
Opens a connection to the specific \fIremote_ip\fR (which may be a hostname, though you do not have control over IPv4 or IPv6 in this case) on \fIremote_port\fR.  The local endpoint is given by \fIlocal_ip\fR \fIlocal_port\fR.  While the \fIlocal_ip\fR \fIlocal_port\fR are technically optional parameters, the system's choice of local address may not be what one expects or may be a different protocols (4 or 6).  The default port is 9695. 
 
.IP "" 10 
A TCP connection will go through a TCP connection establishment and will not register as UP until the remote side accepts.  If one side goes down, the TCP connection will not auto-restart if it becomes availble again. 
 
.IP "" 10 
A UDP connection will start in the UP state and will not go DOWN unless there is a serious network error. 
 
.RS 
.IP "Opens a connection to 1.1.1.1 on port 1200 from the local address 2.2.2.2 port 1300" 10 
add connection tcp conn0 1.1.1.1 1200 2.2.2.2 1300 
 
.IP "opens connection to IPv6 address on port 1300" 10 
add connection udp barney2 fe80::aa20:66ff:fe00:314a 1300 
 
.RE 
.IP "add listener (tcp|udp) \fIsymbolic\fR \fIip_address\fR \fIport\fR" 10 
.IP "add listener ether \fIsymbolic\fR \fIinterfaceName\fR \fIethertype\fR" 10 
.IP "add listener local \fIsymbolic\fR \fIpath\fR" 10 
Adds a protocol listener to accept packets of a given protocol (TCP or UDP or Ethernet). 
The \fIsymbolic\fR name represents the listener and will be used in future commands 
such as access list restrictions.  If using a configuration file on \fBmetis_daemon\fR, you must include 
a listener on localhost for local applications to use. 
 
.IP "" 10 
The \fIip_address\fR is the IPv4 or IPv6 local address to bind to. 
The \fIport\fR is the TCP or UDP port to bind to. 
 
.IP "" 10 
The \fIinterfaceName\fR is the interface to open a raw socket on (e.g. "eth0"). 
The \fIethertype\fR is the EtherType to use, represented as a 0x hex number (e.g. 0x0801) 
or an integer (e.g. 2049). 
 
.IP "" 10 
The \fIpath\fR parameter specifies the file path to a unix domain socket.  Metis  
will create this file and remove it when it exits. 
 
.RS 
.IP "Listens to 192.168.1.7 on tcp port 9695 with a symbolic name 'homenet'" 10 
add listener tcp homenet 192.168.1.7 9695 
 
.IP "Listens to IPv6 localhost on udp port 9695" 10 
add listener udp localhost6 ::1 9695 
 
.IP "Listens to interface 'en0' on ethertype 0x0801" 10 
add listener ether nic0 en0 0x0801 
 
.RE 
.IP "add route \fIsymbolic\fR \fIprefix\fR \fIprefix\fR" 10 
Adds a static route to a given \fIprefix\fR to the FIB for longest match. 
 
.IP "" 10 
Currently, the \fIsymbolic\fR and \fIcost\fR are not used. 
 
.SH "LIST COMMANDS" 
.IP "list connections" 10 
Enumerates the current connections to Metis.  These include all TCP, UDP, Unix Domain, and Ethernet peers. 
Each connection has an connection ID (connid) and a state (UP or DOWN) followed by the local (to metis) and remote 
addresses. 
 
.IP "list interfaces" 10 
Enumerates the system interfaces available to Metis.  Each interface has an Interface ID, a 'name' (e.g. 'eth0'), 
an MTU as reported by the system, and one or more addresses.  
 
.IP "list routes" 10 
Enumerates the routes installed in the FIB.  
The \fIiface\fR is the out-bound connection.   
The \fIprotocol\fR is the the routing protocol that injected the route. 
'STATIC' means it was manually entered via \fBmetis_control\fR. 
\fIroute\fR is the route type.  'LONGEST' means longest matching prefix 
and 'EXACT' means exact match.  Only 'LONGEST' is supported. 
\fIcost\fR is the cost of the route.  It is not used. 
\fInext\fR is the nexthop on a multiple access interface.  it is not used 
because the current implementation uses one connection (iface)  per neighbor. 
\fIprefix\fR is the CCNx name prefix for the route. 
 
.IP "Examples" 10 
.PP 
.nf 
> list connections 
23   UP inet4://127.0.0.1:9695 inet4://127.0.0.1:64260 TCP 
 
> list interfaces 
int       name lm      MTU  
24        lo0 lm    16384 inet6://[::1%0]:0 
inet4://127.0.0.1:0 
inet6://[fe80::1%1]:0 
25        en0  m     1500 link://3c-15-c2-e7-c5-ca 
inet6://[fe80::3e15:c2ff:fee7:c5ca%4]:0 
inet4://13.1.110.60:0 
inet6://[2620::2e80:a015:3e15:c2ff:fee7:c5ca%0]:0 
inet6://[2620::2e80:a015:a4b2:7e10:61d1:8d97%0]:0 
26        en1  m     1500 link://72-00-04-43-4e-50 
inet4://192.168.1.1:0 
27        en2  m     1500 link://72-00-04-43-4e-51 
28    bridge0  m     1500 link://3e-15-c2-7e-96-00 
29       p2p0  m     2304 link://0e-15-c2-e7-c5-ca 
 
> list routes 
iface  protocol   route     cost                 next prefix 
23    STATIC LONGEST        1 \-\--.\-\--.\-\--.\-\--/.... lci:/foo/bar 
Done 
 
.fi 
.PP 
.SH "REMOVE COMMANDS" 
.IP "remove connection" 10 
Not implemented. 
 
.IP "remove route" 10 
Not implemented. 
 
.SH "MISC COMMANDS" 
.IP "quit" 10 
In interactive mode of \fBmetis_control\fR, it cause the program to exit. 
 
.IP "set debug" 10 
Turns on the debugging flag in \fBmetis_control\fR to display information about its connection to Metis. 
 
.IP "unset debug" 10 
Turns off the debugging flag in \fBmetis_control\fR to display information about its connection to Metis. 
 
.SH "USAGE" 
.PP 
\fBExample Linux metis.cfg configuration file\fR 
.PP 
.nf 
#local listeners for applications 
add listener tcp local0 127.0.0.1 9695 
add listener udp local1 127.0.0.1 9695 
add listener local unix0 /tmp/metis.sock 
 
# add ethernet listener and connection 
add listener ether nic0 eth0 0x0801 
add connection ether conn0 ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff eth0 
add route conn0 lci:/ 1 
 
# add UDP tunnel to remote system 
add connection udp conn1 ccnx.example.com 9695 
add route conn1 lci:/eample.com 1 
 
.fi 
.PP 
.PP 
\fBExample one-shot metis_control commands\fR 
.PP 
.nf 
\fBmetis_control\fR list routes 
\fBmetis_control\fR add listener local unix0 /tmp/metis.sock 
 
.fi 
.SH "SEE ALSO" 
.PP 
\fBmetis_control\fP\fB(1)\fP  
\fBmetis_daemon\fP\fB(1)\fP 	 
.SH "CAVEATS" 
.PP 
 
.SH "BUGS" 
.IP "   \(bu" 6 
The output of 'list interfaces' is difficult to read because multiple addresses 
do not align. 
 
.SH "AUTHOR" 
.PP 
Marc Mosko Palo Alto Research Center  	 
.\" created by instant / docbook-to-man, Tue 26 May 2015, 01:54 
