.TH "		\fBmetis_control\fP 	" "1" 
.SH "NAME" 
\fBmetis_control\fP 	 \(em Metis is the CCNx 1.0 forwarder, which runs on each end system and as a software forwarder 
on intermediate systems.  \fBmetis_control\fR is the program to configure the forwarder,  
\fBmetis_daemon\fR. 
 
.SH "SYNOPSIS" 
.PP 
\fBmetis_control\fR [\fB\-\-keystore\fP \fIkeystore\fR]  [\fB\-\-password\fP \fIpassword\fR]  [commandline]  
.SH "DESCRIPTION" 
.PP 
\fBmetis_control\fR 	is the program used to configure a running forwarder \fBmetis_daemon\fR.  It will connect to 
the forwarder over a local listener (e.g. TCP to localhost or a unix domain socket).  If a  
\fIcommandline\fR option is specified, \fBmetis_control\fR 	will send that one command to Metis and then exit.  If no \fIcommandline\fR 	is specified, \fBmetis_command\fR will enter interacitve mode where the user can issue 
multiple commands. 
 
.PP 
\fBmetis_control\fR requires a signing keystore for communicating over the network.  The 
\fIkeystore\fR file is a standard PKCS12 keystore, and may be 
created using 
\fBparc_publickey\fP\fB(1)\fP. 
If no \fIkeystore\fR is specified, \fBmetis_control\fR 	will look in the standard path ~/.ccnx/.ccnx_keystore.p12. 
The keystore password is specified in \fIpassword\fR.  If not specified, 
no password is used.  If the keystore does not open, the user will be prompted for a password. 
 
.PP 
See \fBmetis.cfg\fP\fB(5)\fP for 
a specification of the available \fIcommandline\fR. 
 
.PP 
The environment variable METIS_PORT may be used to specify what TCP port to use to connect to the local Metis. 
The environment variable METIS_LOCALPATH may be used to specific the UNIX domain socket to connect to the local Metis 
and takes priority over METIS_PORT. 
 
.SH "OPTIONS" 
.IP "\-\-keystore \fIkeystore\fR" 10 
\fBmetis_control\fR requires a signing keystore for communicating over the network.  The 
\fIkeystore\fR file is a standard PKCS12 keystore, and may be 
created using 
\fBparc_publickey\fP\fB(1)\fP. 
If no \fIkeystore\fR is specified, \fBmetis_control\fR 				will look in the standard path ~/.ccnx/.ccnx_keystore.p12. 
 
.IP "\-\-password \fIpassword\fR" 10 
The keystore password is specified in \fIpassword\fR.  If not specified, 
no password is used.  If the keystore does not open, the user will be prompted for a password. 
 
.IP "commandline" 10 
The remainder of the arguments are the commandline to send to Metis.  See USAGE. 
 
.SH "USAGE" 
.PP 
\fBmetis_control\fR \-\-keystore keystore.p12 
 
.PP 
\fBmetis_control\fR \-\-keystore keystore.p12 list interfaces 
 
.SH "SEE ALSO" 
.PP 
See \fBparc_publickey\fP\fB(1)\fP for a utility 
to create a PKCS keystore. 
 
.PP 
For a list of all configuration lines that may be used with 
\fBmetis_control\fR and by \fI\-\-config\fR configuration file, 
see \fBmetis.cfg\fP\fB(5)\fP. 
 
.PP 
The default keystore is ~/.ccnx/.ccnx_keystore.p12. 
 
.SH "CAVEATS" 
.PP 
 
.SH "BUGS" 
.PP 
 
.SH "AUTHOR" 
.PP 
Marc Mosko Palo Alto Research Center  	 
.\" created by instant / docbook-to-man, Tue 26 May 2015, 01:54 
